# Budget Manager

This is a command line app that can track your expesense, income and save them in a file. I built this app as a project to teach my self some of the theoretical concepts of python that I learned. This project taught me important python development concepts including, File I/O, Object Oriented Programming, Exception handling, control flow and conditonal statments. 

---

## Featres of the app  

   - Adding Transaction (Income/Expense)
   - Showing history of transactions as a list
   - Deleting specific Transactions using thier index
   - Saving and loading from a file

## Installation 

Make sure you have *Python 3.8+* installed in your computer. 

Clone the repository and head to that folder 

    git clone https://github.com/kanofiadmasu/Budget-Manager
    cd Budget-Manager

## Usage 

Once installed simply run the file and you will be prompted with main menu options

    python Personal_budget.py

    Output options
    
    1: Add a transaction
    2: View all transactions
    3: Total balance
    4: Delete a transaction
    5: Exit
    
    Enter your choice: 
      
## Project Structure

    budgetmanager/
    │
    ├── Personal_budget.py      # Main CLI script
    ├── transaction.txt         # Saved transactions
    ├── README.md

## Learning Outcomes
As my first python project, this project has taught me some fundamental concepts that will me build better software. In addition to the technical lessons I got, Building this project help me understand that building software is not only about writing code, there are also other sections in the Pie, which are first understanig the flow of our software, thinking interms of edge cases, designing a piece of software so that it is reusable and modular, and many more learnings. 

***Some Technical lessons learned***

      1. Object Oreinted Design in python 
      2. Reading and writng data from a file (File I/O). 
      3. Exception handling
      4. Control flow and Conditional statments 


## Contributing 

  1. Fork the repo  
  2. Add or improve features, report an issue or a bug  
  3. Open a pull request

## License

---  

Since I am learning, none of the code in this project is produced or generated by AI, though I have used AI to understand some of the concepts that I didn't understand while building this project.

This is my first python project. Prior to this I only built smaller projects to practice and learn specific concepts. As this is a beginner project this code can be refactored to produce more quality, readable, and efficeint code.


